for years we've been talking about
central Indiana as a great place to live
in a world-class destination for
business and tourism and the progress
we've made toward that goal is pretty
impressive but there's one thing that's
missing that every world-class city has
a world-class transit system that meets
the needs of the entire region we have a
plan for expanding our transit system to
meet the needs of our growing and
changing community over the past couple
of years we work with hundreds of
businesspeople civic leaders and
interested citizens to develop a
comprehensive plan that connects more
people to more places throughout central
Indiana the first phase of the plan
expands and enhances transit service in
Marion and Hamilton counties but over
time other counties could join and the
system would expand to include all of
central Indiana reaching our goal will
first require us to expand and enhance
our region's bus service which is the
foundation of every transit system the
plan will double our local bus system in
the first ten years with more frequent
service on all routes significantly
reducing the wait time between buses
multiple new crosstown routes longer
service hours and expanded weekend
service and bus service will extend
beyond Marion County offering a truly
regional service to connect people to
jobs health care education and
recreation across central Indiana we're
also adding Express routes that provide
point-to-point service between key
destinations in both Marion and Hamilton
counties plus we're adding circulator
buses that would help you to get around
town once you're there like the current
system the expanded system will be clean
safe and reliable new buses will offer
modern comforts and amenities like Wi-Fi
and feature the latest and transit
technology is to ensure you know when
the bus is expected to arrive and can
board quickly and easily
they'll be powered by the latest and
energy-efficient technology
put it all together it's modern and
convenient and twice the size of our
current system
additionally the Indy Connect plan adds
five rapid transit lines and key heavily
traveled corridors that will quickly and
efficiently move large numbers of people
to their destinations our rapid transit
lines will ensure quick travel by
utilizing dedicated lanes or rails to be
separated from traffic they'll take
advantage of signal priority or crossing
gates at intersections and will operate
as frequently as every five to ten
minutes rapid transit vehicles stop less
frequently than a local bus with
accessible stations located
approximately every half mile two mile
apart transfers would be available
between lines where they intersect in
each station would provide connectivity
to local bus service or other rapid
transit routes the blue rapid transit
line would run from the airport connect
travelers to downtown and extend to the
far east side the red line would run
north and south from downtown Carmel
through downtown Indy all the way to
Greenwood the purple line would provide
service along 38th Street from Lafayette
Square to Lauren's the orange line would
run along Keystone Avenue from Carmel to
the University of Indianapolis on the
south side and the green line would run
from Noblesville through Fisher's to
downtown Indianapolis rapid transit
could be implemented with a couple of
different technologies BRT or bus rapid
transit uses vehicles that are more like
train cars than buses they look and feel
like a rail vehicle with multiple large
doors spacious interiors and amenities
like onboard Wi-Fi for your convenience
and some rapid transit lines could use
light rail vehicles that run on their
own separate rail lines or even rails in
the street indeed connect isn't just
about mass transit it also ties into the
region's growing pedestrian and bike way
network including
new bike lanes the Indianapolis Greenway
system the Monon Trail and the cultural
trail however you want to get around
this is the plan for you
the connect plan is about connecting
people with the places they want to go
to work health care education and
recreation it'll help us attract new
jobs you keep our brightest young people
right here it'll make getting around
central Indiana quicker easier and more
affordable most importantly it will help
us continue our transformation into a
truly world-class metropolitan area and
econnect
it's transit for all of us